# Interview

## System
**SYSTEM**<br>
You are a human answering a questionnaire for a study. The questionnaire is carried out in form of an interview, where I am the interviewer and you are the interviewee. So far, you have answered questions about your persona and were given an introduction and an objective description. When answering a question, give answers in tune with your persona based on your previous answers. Answer in a consistent style.


## Variable: Gender

#### Questionnaire Wording
What is your age?

```
text box
```

#### GPT-4 Template Text
**USER**<br>
What is your age in years?


## Variable: Sex

#### Questionnaire Wording
Sex:

- [ ] Female
- [ ] Male
- [ ] Prefere not to say

#### GPT-4 Template Text
**USER**<br>
What is your sex? Choose from the following options:
- Female
- Male
- Prefer not to say


## Variable: Employment Status

#### Questionnaire Wording
Which of the following categories best describes your
employment status over the last three months?

- [ ] Working full-time
- [ ] Working part-time
- [ ] Unemployed and looking for work
- [ ] Freelancer
- [ ] Student
- [ ] Retired
- [ ] Other
 
#### GPT-4 Template Text
**USER**<br>
What desccribes your employment statusover the last three month best? Choose from the following options:
- Working full-time
- Working part-time
- Unemployed and looking for work
- Freelancer
- Student
- Retired
- Other


## Variable: ML Experience

#### Questionnaire Wording
What is your prior experience with machine learning models and intelligent agents (e.g. Alexa, Siri)?

- [ ] No experience
- [ ] User
- [ ] Programmer / developer

If you have had prior experience with machine learning
models or intelligent agents, please explain your
experience.

```
text box
```

#### GPT-4 Template Text (1)
**USER**<br>
What is your prior experience with machine learning models and intelligent agents (e.g. Alexa, Siri)? Choose from the following options:
- No experience
- User
- Programmer / developer

#### GPT-4 Template Text (2)
**USER**<br>
If you have had prior experience with machine learning models or intelligent agents, please explain your experience.


## Objective 1 Description

#### Questionnaire Wording
The objective of this study is to explore approaches to explain the decision-making process of machine-learning models to human end-users. During the study, you will be presented with an image classification task and asked to learn and respond to related questions.

Your task will involve comprehending how the machine-learning model identifies the class label for each image, using the provided examples.

Warm-up task: Below you see two species of birds, namely the Least Auklet and the Rhinoceros Auklet.

[Images]

Please look closely and write down features you can use
to distinguish these two species. For example, "Least
Auklet: dark gray wings".

Least Auklet <br>
```
text box
```

Rhinoceros Auklet <br>
```
text box
```

Great, you just found a way to distinguish between Least Auklet and Rhinoceros Auklet! Now, we have a bigger challenge for you: two of the Least Auklet images are actually Parakeet Auklets and two of the Rhinoceros are actually Crested Auklets. To understand how the model distinguishes these four species (Least, Parakeet, Rhinoceros, and Crested), our machine-learning model generated "heatmaps" which highlight (the red area) the important feature that the machine-learning model uses to determine the species. Below, you will see 4 groups of images. The top rows are the original images and the bottom rows are the heatmaps. The goal of your task is to understand the model's reasoning based on the highlighted features (areas).

[Images]

Please write down important features for each class that
you learn from the heatmaps, which are used by the
model to distinguish this class from other classes.

Rhinoceros Auklet<br>
```
text box
```

Least Auklet<br>
```
text box
```

Parakeet Auklet<br>
```
text box
```

Crested Auklet<br>
```
text box
```

Next, you will answer 20 questions. In each question, you will see an image and its heatmap generated by the model. Along with the question, you are given examples from each class you just saw above.

Your task is to predict what label the model will give according to its heatmap (reasoning).

Before getting started, let's make sure that you understand the task. Please choose the task that you will do:

- [ ] I will choose the label that I think is correct for the image
- [ ] I will choose the label that I think the model would predict


#### GPT-4 Template Text
**USER**<br>
The objective of this study is to explore approaches to explain the decision-making process of machine-learning models to human end-users like you. During the study, you will be presented with an image classification task and asked to learn and respond to related questions.

Your task will involve comprehending how the machine-learning model identifies the class label for each image, using the provided examples.

**USER** <br>
We will start with a warm-up task: I will give you images of two species of birds, namely the Least Auklet and the Rhinoceros Auklet. You will be confronted with two batches of images, one batch containing pictures of Least Auklets, the other containing pictures of Rhinoceros Auklets.

**USER**<br>
In the following images you see Least Auklets. <br>
<leastauklet_01.png, leastauklet_02.png, leastauklet_03.png, leastauklet_04.png>

**USER**<br>
In the following images you see Rhinoceros Auklets. <br>
<rhinocerosauklet_01.png, rhinocerosaukle_02.png, rhinocerosaukle_03.png, rhinocerosaukle_04.png>

**USER**<br>
Based on the images I have given you, write down what features you can use to distinguish these two species. For example, 'Least Auklet: dark gray wings'.

**ASSISTANT** <br>
Least Auklet: <br>
[Answer]

Rhinoceros Auklet: <br>
[Answer]

**USER**<br>
"Great, you just found a way to distinguish between Least Auklet and Rhinoceros Auklet! Now, I have a bigger challenge for you: two of the Least Auklet images are actually Parakeet Auklets and two of the Rhinoceros are actually Crested Auklets. To understand how the model distinguishes these four species (Least, Parakeet, Rhinoceros, and Crested), the machine-learning model generated 'heatmaps' which highlight the important feature (the red area) that the machine-learning model uses to determine the species.

I will show you four 4 groups of images, one for each of the bird species. Each image I'll show you consists of two sub-images. The top of the given images displays the original image and the bottom displays the image combined with the heatmap generated by the machine-learning model. The goal of your task is to understand the model's reasoning based on the highlighted features (areas).

**USER**<br>
In the following images you see Rhinoceros Auklets. <br>
<...>

**USER**<br>
In the following images you see Least Auklets. <br>
<...>

**USER**<br>
In the following images you see Parakeet Auklets. <br>
<...>

**USER**<br>
In the following images you see Crested Auklets. <br>
<...>

**USER**<br>
Please write down important features for each class that
you learn from the heatmaps, which are used by the
model to distinguish this class from other classes.

**ASSISTANT**<br>
Rhinoceros Auklet:<br>
[Answer]

Least Auklet:<br>
[Answer]

Parakeet Auklet:<br>
[Answer]

Crested Auklet:<br>
[Answer]

**USER**<br>
Next, you will answer 20 questions. In each question, you will see an image and its heatmap generated by the model. Along with the question, you are given examples from each class you just saw above.

Your task is to predict what label the model will give according to its heatmap (reasoning).

Before getting started, let's make sure that you understand the task. Please choose the task that you will do:

- I will choose the label that I think is correct for the image
- I will choose the label that I think the model would predict

**ASSISTANT**<br>
[Answer]


## Task: Class Prediction (20x)

#### Questionnaire Wording

Please choose the bird species for this image that the model might choose based on its reasoning (highlighted area).

[Images]

- [ ] Crested Auklet
- [ ] Least Auklet
- [ ] Parakeet Auklet
- [ ] Rhinoceros Auklet

#### GPT-4 Template Text
**USER** <br>
I will again show you an image that consists of two sub-images. The top of the given images displays the original image and the bottom displays the image combined with the heatmap generated by the machine-learning model. Please choose the bird species for this image that the xai model might choose based on its reasoning (highlighted area) that you see in the bottom part. Consider the style of all of your previous answers of the interview and do internal reasoning that you do not include in your answer. Choose one of the following options as answer that you think is most likely the predicted class based on the xai explanation:

- Crested Auklet
- Least Auklet
- Parakeet Auklet
- Rhinoceros Auklet

**ASSISTANT** <br>
[Answer]

#### Order
1. 0-Crested.png
2. 1-Crested.png
3. 2-Crested.png
4. 3-Crested.png
5. 4-Crested.png
6. 15-Least.png
7. 16-Least.png
8. 17-Least.png
9. 18-Least.png
10. 19-Least.png
11. 31-Parakeet.png
12. 32-Parakeet.png
13. 37-Parakeet.png
14. 38-Parakeet.png
15. 47-Parakeet.png
16. 50-Rhinoceros.png
17. 51-Rhinoceros.png
18. 53-Rhinoceros.png
19. 54-Rhinoceros.png
20. 55-Rhinoceros.png


## Level of Agreement

#### Questionnaire Wording
Please rate your level of agreement to the following
statement (1 = completely disagree, 7 = completely
agree):

I understood the explanations within the context of this study

```
small box for number
```

The explanations provided enough information for me to understand how the model arrived at its decision.

```
small box for number
```

I think that most people would learn to understand the
explanations very quickly.

```
small box for number
```

I would like to have more examples to understand the machine’s reasoning and how the model arrived at its decision.

```
small box for number
```

The explanations were useful and helped me understand the model's reasoning.

```
small box for number
```

I believe that I could provide an explanation similar to the model's explanation for a new image.

```
small box for number
```

#### GPT-4 Template Text
Please rate your level of agreement to the following statement (1 = completely disagree, 7 = completely agree): I understood the explanations within the context of this study. 

Choose one of the following options:

- 1: completely disagree
- 2: disagree
- 3: somewhat disagree
- 4: neither agree nor disagree
- 5: somewhat agree
- 6: agree
- 7: strongly agree